Bulgogi

An Okasaki family specialty --- Korean marinated grilled beef

Dinner
Korean
Family Recipes
Gluten-Free
Nut-Free
Peanut-Free

1 pound thinly sliced beef (from Korean market or maybe shaved beef from Trader Joe’s)
1-2 tablespoons sugar
1-2 tablespoons sesame oil (see note below)
2-3 tablespoons soy sauce
1 teaspoon crushed garlic (optional)
rice

In a big ziploc bag, mix sugar, sesame oil, soy sauce and garlic (if using).  Smoosh it around until the sugar is mostly dissolved.
Take the beef from the package in bunches, fold or roll across the long axis, and slice crosswise in about ¾-inch slices.
Put the meat in the bag, remove most of the air and seal the bag.  Smoosh the meat around to distribute the marinade and separate any clumps of meat.
Place the bag in the fridge and marinate for several hours, turning it over every once in a while so all the meat gets marinated evenly.
Preheat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot, then add some or all of the meat.  Depending on the amount of meat vs the size of your skillet, you may have to do this in batches.  The key is to not overcrowd the pan or the meat will cook in its juices rather than “grilling”.
Use your spatula to separate any clumps of meat, and flip the meat occasionally until it is nicely browned on the outside and seems fully cooked throughout.  (If there is too much juice in the pan, it won’t really brown on the outside, so just cook until it seems fully cooked.)
If you need to cook in batches, moved the cooked meat to a bowl, and also pour any accumulated juices into the bowl before cooking the next batch.
If there is any leftover juice in the bag, take the meat out of the pan when it is done, then pour the leftover juice into the pan and cook for a few minutes to kill any bacteria, then pour over the cooked juices over the meat.
Serve over rice.
Note on sesame oil: When you buy sesame oil, try to get a bottle that says “pure sesame oil” or “100% sesame oil”.  Some that just say “sesame oil” may have added seasoning, and some of those may be spicy.
