Black Bean Butternut Squash Enchilada Casserole

An elaborate but rewarding Mexican-inspired casserole.

Dinner
Gluten-Free
Vegetarian
Nut-Free
Peanut-Free
Sesame-Free

Roasted Butternut Squash:
4-5 cups butternut squash, cubed
2 tablespoons olive oil
salt
Vegetable mixture:
1/2 onion, chopped
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 green bell pepper, chopped into cubes
1 red bell pepper , chopped into cubes
1 teaspoon cumin, or more
1 teaspoon chili powder, or more
salt
1 can corn, rinsed
1 can black beans, rinsed and drained
1/4 teaspoon and 1/8 teaspoon salt
Ingredient for assembling the casserole:
1 cup salsa (to go on the bottom of the casserole dish)
12 corn tortillas, 6 inch diameter (4 corn tortillas per each of 3 layers)
1 and 1/2 cups sour cream (1/2 cup sour cream for each of 3 layers)
1 cup enchilada sauce (if you're gluten free, make sure to buy the sauce without gluten!)
1 and 1/2 and 1/4 cups Mozzarella cheese (1/2 cup mozzarella cheese for each layer plus extra on top)

Roasted butternut squash:
Preheat the oven to 375 F. Line the baking sheet with aluminum foil and grease with 1 tablespoon of olive oil.
Peel the squash and slice it into 3/4 inch cubes. You will only need about 1/2 of the medium size squash. Toss the squash cubes in a large bowl with 2 tablespoons olive oil and generously sprinkle with salt.
Put butternut squash on the greased baking sheet and roast for about 30 minutes, until soft. Flip the squash cubes over midway through baking. Let it cool slightly.
Roasting vegetables on the stove top:
Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a large skillet on medium-high heat. Add chopped onion, chopped green bell pepper, and chopped red bell pepper, 1 teaspoon cumin, and 1 teaspoon chili powder, and roast the vegetables in olive oil and spices on high heat until charred just a bit. Mid-way through, add corn, then rinsed and drained black beans. Add roasted butternut squash. Season with 1/4 teaspoon + 1/8 teaspoon salt and taste. Add more salt if needed. Add more chili powder or cumin, than indicated in the recipe, if needed.
Assembling the casserole:
I used a casserole dish 11 inches long x 8.5 inches wide x 3 inches deep. Add 1 cup of salsa to the bottom of this 3 inch deep casserole dish and spread to coat the bottom evenly. Top with 4 tortillas, overlapping to cover the bottom of the casserole dish.
Spread 1/3 of the vegetable mixture over the tortillas. Top with 1/2 cup sour cream, dropping it in small dollops all over, then carefully spreading it over the veggies. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup Mozzarella cheese. Top with 4 tortillas.
Spread 1/3 of the vegetable mixture over the tortillas. Top with 1/2 cup sour cream, dropping it in small dollops all over, then spreading it carefully over the veggies. Pour 1/2 cup enchilada sauce evenly all over, at the same time spreading sour cream evenly all over. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup Mozzarella cheese. Top with 4 tortillas.
Spread 1/3 of the vegetable mixture over the tortillas. Top with 1/2 cup sour cream, dropping it in small dollops all over, then spreading it carefully. Pour 1/2 cup enchilada sauce evenly all over, spreading sour cream evenly all over. Sprinkle with 1/2 and 1/4 cups Mozzarella cheese. Cover with foil.
Bake at 375 F for 25 minutes covered, then remove foil, and bake for 10 more minutes uncovered.
